Welcome, ladies and girls, to the Linux Basic Commands Lecture.
So these commands you will use both for your DevOps work as well as your day to day I.T. work.
All right.
With that being said, let's get started to change.
Current working directory, you will use C, D and then the path of the directory.
And then to see which current working directory you are currently sitting on, you will use the command
p, d or present working directory.
So in the previous command we keyed into this resources directory and now if I run p.w dx it is going
to display the whole path to list the files in the current directory you will run ls command.
Not that this command is not going to display the hidden files to list the files with little bit more
information you will run ls with dash l option as in long listing as you could see, it shows how many
files we have in this directory.
It shows the date it was created as well as the size and the permission.
This command still doesn't show any hidden files to see.
The hidden files you will do ls dash a as in all and you can run ls dash l for long listing of all files,
including the hidden files.
The next command, which is very important, is setting a value for the environment variable.
So for example, you created this variable as underscore region and you want to set the value to the
region you are currently working on.
So you will set the value by running this export command export and then the name of the variable.
And in this case there is no separate command to create the variable.
This is just one command.
The export s underscore region equals to us west two will create this s underscore region environment
variable and then assign the value us west to and then to display the value of this environment variable
you will simply do echo and then dollar and then name of the variable.
So the echo command can be used to display other stuff as well.
For example, if you just echo Dave hops rocks, it is just going to display DevOps rocks.
Note that these environment variables are only persistent through the session.
If you close your Linux session and then open up another terminal, these environment variables are
gone.
Now let's take a look at creating directory commands.
So you create a directory by running deer or mac directory and then name of the directory.
This will create this new directory in your current working directory.
So let's say you created this directory and then you keyed into this Jenkins artifact directory and
then you run a p.w dx.
It is going to show the whole path with the new directory at the end.
Now if you want to go up one directory, so you want to go back to see Udemy videos.
Kate underscore your case and resources, you will simply type seed space, dot dot, so basically CD
space and then two periods and as you could see that would bring you up one directory up you can join
multiple commands with semicolon.
So let's say you are sitting in C colon.
Udemy videos k eight underscore X and you want to go into the working directory resources and then you
also want to list the files.
So instead of running CD resources and then else you can just run multiple command using CD resources,
semicolon lists, and that will make your working directory resources as well as list all the files
inside the resources folder.
Now how will you make multiple new directories?
What I mean by that is let's say you want to create a directory, a new one, and the new two directory
inside that new one directory and then new three inside that new tool.
So one way is you can keep running make directory and CD.
So you run Mac directory, that's a new one and then you CD into new one and then you do a mac directory
new to.
Alternatively, the easier way to do that is make directory dash p option and then you can give the
folders a folder structure, let's say slash new one, slash new tool, slash new three.
And, and this command will create all these three new directories in one shot.
If you want to remove a specific file or folder, you can run REM and the name of the file or folder.
In this case I'm removing test txt so I'm giving R.M. test txt.
If you pass a folder name after rem, remember that the folder needs to be empty.
If you want to remove all the files from inside a folder and then remove the folder, you can run rem
dash r as in recursive and then you can give the folder name or the whole folder structure.
So in this case, this will remove any files inside new one, new to new three, as well as it will
remove all three folders.
So be careful when running rem dash r.
If you want to copy file to another folder, you run CPP command.
So in this case I'm copying Dave hops test txt file inside dave hops test folder.
So I'm simply running cp the name of the file that I want to copy and then the destination.
You can also move.
So instead of CP, you run MV in this case, DevOps test, that test will be moved from the current
directory to inside DevOps test directory to move one directory to another directory you can do CP dash
ah as in recursive.
In this case I'm moving the directory security inside the directory DevOps test.
So in Linux the directory is basically the folder in Windows.
You got the idea.
All right.
Those are the basic Linux commands that you will use in your day to day work.
And with that being said, let's take a look into Linux file and user commands in the next lecture.